# 03.09.2022 - Reading Notes/Identification with The Aggressor

Paper: [https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24603172/](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24603172/)

When a child suffers abuse from an adult, a [defence mechanism][6] is triggered, causing the child to imitate the behaviour of the abuser. This mechanism is called Identification with The Aggressor. An extreme example of this is the [Stockholm syndrome][5].

Identification with The Aggressor is a kind of [Introjection][1] which is human tendency to imitate others. Positive Introjection is seen in teenagers mimicking the speaking or walking behaviour of their favourite actor or rock star. However, when subject to abuse, Introjection is used "negatively" as a defence mechanism to protect the child's psyche from being hurt by reality.

The first thing to keep in mind is the child's situation. According to [Carl Jung][3], a child only starts to notice the distinction between his/her ego from the parents at the age of puberty with the event of "Psychic Birth".

> Psychic birth, and with it the conscious distinction of the ego from the parents, takes place in the normal course of things at the age of puberty with the eruption of sexual life. The physiological change is attended by a psychic revolution. For the various bodily manifestations give such an emphasis to the ego that it often asserts itself without stint or measure. This is sometimes called “the unbearable age”. - Modern Man in Search of a Soul (1933)

Thus, when subject to abuse, the child's sense of "self" is "weakened." Because if their psyche tries to keep the "self," it risked opposing (fighting for himself) to the abuser, which in this case also the caretaker (a source of comfort & safety). So at this point, the mind prioritizes maintaining the connection with the abuser by performing Introjection, making the abuser part of the psyche and removed from conscious awareness. This is when the child takes on the abuser's "self-state" or "the child's idea of the abuser."

> Thus, we not only have the procedurally enacted identification with the abuser, which becomes unconscious, but now, from the attachment-oriented victim position, a positive attachment relationship with the abuser, "a situation of tenderness" is preserved in consciousness. 

But when a child is dependent on an abuser who is also the caretaker, we must pose the question of how the child's psyche can cope with such contradiction.

> Proximity to an attachment figure provides protection to the infant against predators, whereas separation from the attachment figure signals danger. What happens when survival is predicated on attachment to a caretaker who is also a predator? When the person from whom protection is sought is the same one against whom protection is needed?

This is when another defence mechanism called [compartmentalization][2] is triggered.

> Compartmentalization is a psychological defense mechanism in which thoughts and feelings that seem to conflict are kept separated or isolated from each other in the mind.

This splits the memories of the parents' abusive behaviour into the unconscious and only keeps the moments of attention or tenderness in the conscious mind. The child then magnifies those memories to create "better" parents and maintain a relationship with the abusive caretaker.

So now the child has the abuser's self-state acting as the [superego][4], guiding he/she through life to maintain a positive attachment with the needed abuser.

> Modeled on an abusive caretaker, these self-states often punish the person because they believe this is necessary for the person’s safety and protection.

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Introjection
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compartmentalization_(psychology)
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Jung
[4]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Id,_ego_and_super-ego#Super-ego
[5]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stockholm_syndrome
[6]: 03.08.2022%20-%20Psychology%20Defense%20Mechanisms.md
